docker is a software that can be run on any hardware. It is package with all the code needed create your application. the image is light weight and it does use it own kennel because it is running on the host kennal. docker is secure and the container is isolated. Docker has broken one of the major issues that vitualization has which is all infrastucture to have the same behavior reguardlest the linux flavor. less trouble shooting. Docker is fast, less time comsuming and cost effective
Dockerfile is the first thing you would need to create an image if you do not want to use an already created image because due to security issue or may you need to customermize your image. It has all the necessary instruction needed for your image to be created. With dockerfile file, you can create your image according to your desire or the application you are working.
After you have created your dockerfile, you can now build your docker image by running docker build. At this point you have the choice to use it for collaboration purposes by push the image to the company private repository for reuseability. 
Now you can use your image to create docker container by running docker run along with the necessary arguments needed to create your container. once this container is created, you can use it for testing and also in production.
if the container is no longer needed, you can delete it by running docker stop, then docker rm id. 
Now remember, when it comes to container, you need to safe the data and it is done by mounting volume so you data can persist, meaning if the container exit or terminated or something gose wrong, you can use that volume and mount it on another container so your data can persist.
docker has it own network, bridge, host and overlay. with bridge network, container can community with each other internaly and externamly. by default docker has a bridge network as default network. so when you create a container, docker automatically create a network for you container. however, you can create your our network for your container for security purposes. When the container are on the same network, you can ping it. Host network is use use for you data. overlay is for multiple containter network.    